###### Rhett Rogers
###### Comparative Analysis

# Romance and the Perception of Reality

I very much like the Méliès style of films. I believe that films allow us to explore our dreams and places that we could never get to in reality.  I believe that reality and fantasy are equally important. Fantasy can help us dream big and have goals that seem impossible when limited with reality.  Reality allows us to interact with and be loved by people that we can never find in our fantasies alone. The films *Amélie* and *He Loves Me, He Loves Me Not* are two films that explore fantasies in the mind.  The perception of reality, and how fantasy can distort that perception of reality, is a clear concept in both films.  In one film the fantasy leads to a dark and scary place that causes one to cringe.  In the other film, the fantasy leads to a happy ending, but only when that fantasy has been left behind, and reality has been accepted.  Both characters had, or believed they had, a romantic relationship.  There are interesting contrasts between the perceptions of reality that the two main characters have in their relationships. I want to examine a scene from each film and analyze that perception.

The eponymous girl of the film *Amélie* was raised without any friends because of misconceptions from her parents, therefore she grew to be introverted.  Most of the movie is about her breaking out of her shell.  She developed into someone who really wanted to help people. She makes this change when she finds a box belonging to a man who used to live in her apartment. When she returns the box to him, he is overjoyed, and equally she is happy to see him so overjoyed. She then begins to do all kinds of good deeds to help others, but she continued to fear getting too close to anyone.  She soon befriends a man in her apartment complex, the glass man, with bones so frail that he needs to remain indoors and have all his furniture padded. He was an older man who liked to paint. Throughout the film they talk about a painting that he is doing, relating it to their lives, specifically to *Amélie*, even though they do it subtly.  They talk about how she is afraid to go out but she wants to fall in love and find someone to be with.  As *Amélie* goes to work, she passes a man, named Nino, at the station, collecting pictures that people have thrown away.   In a series of events, *Amélie* ends up with his photo album and tries to return it to him but can’t initially.  She likes Nino, and makes complicated schemes for them to meet, although the never meet face to face. Nino really enjoys the romantic mystery she leads him on. Finally, Nino goes to meet her face to face for the first time at her work.  *Amélie* doesn’t reveal who she is but he discovers her and she runs off.  Nino follows her to her apartment. This scene I want to analyze.

Nino arrives at her apartment and rings the bell.  She goes to the door, but doesn’t open it, afraid to let him in.  The scene shows *Amélie*, in her red and warm apartment with her ear pressed to the door and Nino, in the white and colorless stairwell.  After some time he leaves a note under the door saying he will come back.  She goes to the window and sees him on the street.  Then the glass man calls *Amélie* and tells her that her bones are not made of glass, that she can take what life will throw at her and she needs to break out of her shell and go get him. She then runs to the window and sees that he is gone and rushes to the door to chase after him and when she opens it he is there.  She pulls him slowly into the apartment and shuts the door.  *Amélie* then tenderly kisses him in three different places on his face and motions to him to do the same thing. 

I love this scene because there are three things that stand out to me.  First is the color of her room versus the color of the stairway and street outside her apartment.  Outside her apartment there is little color, it is very dry and cold.  Inside her apartment it is very red, and there is a warm and welcoming atmosphere.  It is the atmosphere that *Amélie* has created inside her home.  It is also similar to the atmosphere that she has created in her life.  Her apartment is like her life, warm and comfortable and safe, whereas the outside is cold and uncomfortable.  She is scared to go out into that world.  She brings him into her apartment, and her life, and her sanctuary.  At that moment, she makes the fantasy she has of him a reality by accepting him into her life. 

In *He Loves Me, He Loves Me Not*, the main character, Angelique, seems to be a good person at first, but in reality she is very selfish. Angelique is focused on the one goal of being together with a cardiologist named Loic. Loic is married and his wife is pregnant at the beginning of the film.  He doesn’t know Angelique and by the end of the film he wants nothing to do with her.  The film shows the same story from two different perspectives, one from the perspective of Angelique and the other from the perspective of Loic which is concluded by the last few scenes at the end.  From Angelique’s perspective, Loic is in love with her and is going to leave his wife to be with her.  She ends up housesitting for his neighbor so that she can be close to him. She keeps telling her friends David and Anita about how much Loic loves her and how amazing her relationship is with him and that it is more than just an affair. They believe that it is an affair and don’t realize it is all in her head.  Angelique becomes so obsessed with him that she murders a woman who threatens his career, causes his wife to have a miscarriage, almost commits suicide, and nearly kills Loic, just because she believes so much that this fantasy is reality.  Loic’s perspective is that there is someone stalking him, and he doesn’t even know who it is.  It almost tears his marriage apart.  At one point his wife leaves him because she doesn’t understand why Loic is receiving all of these messages.  Eventually, Angelique tries to commit suicide because she sees that Loic loves his wife and she loves him.  Loic comes onto the scene and saves her life and that is when he discovers who she is and that she was the one who was stalking him.  He decides he needs to get a job elsewhere.

Now the next scene is the one to analyze.  This scene is like *Amélie*, where the fantasy should stop and reality begin.  Angelique meets him at his work as he is moving out.  The scene is very empty and white. You can see the boxes filled with his things that he is packing up.  She asks what he is doing and he tells her he is going far away and that he is not taking her with him.  She is very confused and says so, telling him about all the plans that they had made.  He interrupts her saying that they made no plans and that she had imagined up the whole thing.  He turns and starts walking down the stairs and it shows her point of view, a very blurry vision of him leaving. She then takes a statue of a heart and hits him in the head, making him fall down the stairs.  He nearly dies but recovers later and she is taken away by the police.  
  
This scene is drastically different from the scene in *Amélie*, yet it parallels it in many ways.  Both scenes are of the relationship being realized from the fantasy, whether it is a lasting relationship, or one that shatters.  This scene, in contrast to that from *Amélie*, is cold and empty.  Angelique is presented with the realization of the dream and she chooses not to accept it.  She fights it and becomes violent when she realizes her dream was only a dream and refuses to believe it, striking out in anger against him.  In each scene, color is a good representation of the mood of the scene.
  
Reality is somewhat distorted in these films.  Angelique has erotomania, where she believes she is in a relationship with someone when she really isn’t.  She imagines all of these things that she does with him, and plans that she makes with him, when in reality it is all her.  She even distorts the reality of her friends by telling them her dreams as if it was real.  This causes dysfunction in her real relationships with her friends.  To be fair, she didn’t realize what she was doing was wrong because of her erotomania.  Angelique had a serious mental condition.  

*Amélie* on the other hand, is an introvert.  She doesn’t have a serious mental condition like Angelique (even though incidentally both characters are played by the same actress, Audrey Tautou).  She lives in a fantasy world because she never had any really close friends.  I am sure that as a child she had different imaginary friends.  So to her, the world is a magical and wonderful place that she can add to if she wishes.  She wanted an amazing love story with Nino, and she was able to play out her fantasy with him, until she got to the point that she needed to let him in.  That was a big step for her and it really shows by the time we reach the scene at her apartment.  Perhaps *Amélie* wouldn’t ever be able to fall in love unless she created the mystery for Nino to follow.  She needed to live out her fantasy in order for her to be able to live the reality.  Her reality is distorted by her fantasies, but she accepts the reality when it presents itself to her and that is what brings her happiness.
  
The directors have two very different ideas about what fantasy does to reality.  One one hand, reality is distorted to ruining lives.  On the other hand, reality is distorted but it brings happiness.  In both films color is a big demonstration of the mood of the film.  When there is a lot of color, it is happy and full of life and emotion.  When the colors get faded and dull, the mood is more somber, or even scary.  This shows that when we accept reality, and try to conform our dreams to the reality that is around us, that is when we become truly happy.  When we distort reality and continue to believe that which is not true, then we become much more sad even though we think we are pursuing a good cause.  In either case reality is just as important as dreams and fantasy.  They are equally important in bringing happiness, which is the message I got from both of these films.  
