###### Rhett Rogers
###### Mrs. Scott
###### ENGL 2010
###### 22 October 2010

# Artificial Intelligence and Man's Progression
              
With technology and science at the level it is in our day, we have made incredible advancements in how we do work, how to communicate, and how to learn.  One of the ideas that has been conceived and has in some way been implemented in the real world is the idea of artificial intelligence.  Artificial intelligence is creating a being, with or without a body, that can think and reason on its own.  As of now, the only beings we know of that can do this at a communicable level are other humans.  Animals do have intelligence but not to the point that they can make advancements on their current lives.  In the novel Frankenstein, Vincent Frankenstein creates a being that can think and reason for itself.  Is this right though?  Has man any right to alter the way that nature has been put in place or create a being that didn't ask to be created?  The right to create such a being should be reserved to one who is more perfect that man.

Frankenstein actually shows us that there are some experiments on the human body and brain that should not be conducted.  In Frankenstein, Victor goes to graveyards to gather the necessary body parts to create his monster.  In his mind it was all in the pursuit of science.  There are other examples of where a human body was used, sometimes desecrating it or killing said human, so that man could learn more about how to manipulate his world.  In one example, artificial intelligence programs were created by destructively scanning a human brain and making a digital copy of it.  Other examples express breaking down the human body to place it in a virtual world, only to reconstruct it later.  Such processes may have good benefits over time, but we must consider that we could call this murder in some senses of the word, and who's to say that the mind, once recreated, will work in a way that could reason like it did before?  The body and mind are complex machines that with our current technology, we cannot recreate.  There is a certain respect that must be maintained for the human body.

I feel that the human body is so well put together that it is a gift for us.  However we were created, we were given the ability to grow up.  It may not seem important, but that time with smaller power over the world around us gave us the chance to learn from others who have done the process before.  The monster of Frankenstein was more or less a little child who got upset with one little thing and threw a fit.  He was powerful so he usually would be able to take his anger out on something or someone instead of learning how to control his anger.  A baby, when upset, has no ability to hurt or vent his anger.  All he can do is cry.  Eventually he learns (although he may forget this later in life) that getting angry won't make his problems go away.  He learns how important his emotions are.  Any intelligence that can think and reason will have some sort of feelings and emotions.  We should give him the chance to learn how these emotions work and loving him before we turn him loose.  But we are human and imperfect as Victor shows us as he brings life to his creation for the first time (35).  Our lack of perfection can be our destruction through our creations.

One other example of artificial intelligence that really intrigues me and provides great theoretical insight on artificial intelligence is the works of Isaac Asimov.  He speaks of robots, their creation and development in the future, and how they will affect society.  There are three rules hard coded into each robots intelligence: they must never harm humans, they must always obey humans, they must always protect themselves.  Each of these rules has a priority level in the order stated.  This is an incredible idea for creating an intelligence to help us with chores and tasks that are too strenuous for our human bodies.  But every intelligence has a right to choose for itself as well.  Why should it be restricted to the tasks that a human would put on it, especially when it has abilities far superior to that of a human who has the liberty of free choice?  Another downside to artificial intelligence is that we may condition ourselves to relying always on these machines and not on our own abilities.  This could cause degeneration both in body and mind.  It will dull our senses for we rely on the computers to tell us what is around us.

But there are positive ways to use artificial intelligence if used appropriately.  Even today, software developers use artificial intelligence in video games and simulations to predict the actions of the user and react to it.  This can be a great way for people to learn how others may react to their actions.  The military will use video simulations to train soldiers for combat.  Driving instructors will use it to train new drivers about situations that can occur while driving.  There are many other uses for simulation in the workplace that have merit.

However, there are many who abuse this technology.  There are many who are addicted to video games.  Their addictions can be so bad that they can lose their job or family and descend into a critical state of health and hygiene.  These people want to escape the real world and its problems so they resort to a game or simulation to get away from their problems instead of facing them, learning and growing from them.  They reach out to beings that don't have any understanding of our world and where the user comes from.  It is unhealthy even now for man to turn to a computer simulated image to get his stress relief for that image is not real.  Only in the real world can man truly experiment on the world and get results that are constant and unchanging.  Only there can he continue to learn how he can better his life and the lives of all mankind.  Only in the real world can he feel and understand emotions, both positive and negative.  As we see with Frankenstein, after he created his monster he ceased to console in real people and hid the problem of what he created until he was psychologically destroyed. 

The human brain is so complex and we don't even use the full amount of it.  In fact, we only use a small portion of the human brain.  There is so little understood of the mind and how it works, and every day people discover new, albeit small, facts about the brain.  It would be very difficult to replicate the way that the human brain works. 

Despite the advancements made today, we must be very cautious of how we go about using them for our lives.  Artificial intelligence can be a good thing, just as any other tool, but we must make and maintain it with perfection or it will malfunction, or turn on the creator.  Man must continue to make advancements but understand the reason that certain things in nature exist, and he must be wise with the knowledge he receives if he wants to continue to progress.
